>> Sarah Drasner: Morphing SVG paths is my
favorite thing [LAUGH] in the whole world.
So it feels a little like we start
the day responsible stuff, and
then towards the end, it just gets funner
and funner, more fun, more fun, more fun.
Clipping and masking, okay.
So the last thing we're gonna do today is
actually a really useful thing, because
until you know how to clip and mask
things, it's really hard to get realistic
motion especially if you have things like
arms and legs and things moving around.
Because there's a lot of times where you
need to just show a piece of something and
not the full thing in order
to make something realistic.
So let's talk about clipping and masking.
So the difference between clipping and
masking is really the way
that you think about it.
So clipping is using the geometry of
a shape to cut out another shape or
an image so you can cut out like a picture
or you can cut out another piece of an SVG
even cut out a GIF and do GIF masking.
So that uses the geometry so if I use
this shape and take a rectangle and
you know create a clip it wont
take those strokes styles with it.
It will only take
the geometry of that shape.
But if I do a mask it's
dealing with transparency so
it's taking what's like darker and
lighter it's taking all of
the kind of pieces of it.
So in this case dashes.
So if I took a bitmap image it
would be masking like you could
probably see parts of an eye and the nose.
You could see all of those
gradient as part of that too.
I have a hard time remembering
the difference between clipping and
masking and how to use each.
So I wrote an article about it.
[LAUGH] Masking, partially,
because CSS-tricks has good SEO.
So I knew I would find it again.
Also, I felt like if I
wrote an article I would
keep it in my mind a little bit better and
I would remember better and it did work.
So if you wanna remember something and you
can't remember it write an article because
then not only can you remember it a little
but better but you can also find it again.
So it's good for the community and
also good for your brain.
[LAUGH] So here we go,
we could make animations
that have clippings and masking in them.
This is not a crazy, this isn't like
a really good animation by any means.
But it's more interesting than it would
be because it's got this kind of circle.
So I'm just basically taking the entire
SVG and animating parts of it, and
then I took a circle and
I'm, using a clip path to say just
show me what's inside of this circle.
And then you get kind of like a peering
through the bushes kind of view of it.
Illustrator's good at a lot of things.
It's not good at outputting clip paths.
If you create a clip path in Illustrator,
this is what you're gonna get.
You're gonna get defs, and
an ellipse inside of there.
And then there's gonna be a use and
then a clip path.
And used to animating things that are
inside of a use tag always gets a little
iffy, so if you're animating clip
paths that are done this way,
you're gonna be like,
clip paths are hard to animate.
It's actually that the use tag
is really hard to animate.
And then you get this.
This is really complicated and
hard to understand.
This isn't all that's necessary.
So you might find that it might be
easier to just, bring the path out from
Illustrator if it's a complicated path,
or draw it yourself by writing it.
You don't even actually need defs.
The defs I can consider
like a staging area.
For an SVG, it's like,
we're gonna use you later.
So you don't even need this,
it's just the clip path, and
you apply the clip path somewhere.
Much easier to understand.
And then you don't have crazy use path,
or use nonsense.
SVG has a clip path, or
CSS has a clip path property,
It's not super well supported and
sometimes this pen breaks like
sometimes Chrome supports
it better than other times.
But you can make shapes so
this clippy Bennett feely,
almost Bennett, feely, clippy.
You have to say Bennet freely clippy or
you get the wrong clippy.
And you can do these clip bath makers and
you can drag them around and
that's cool and it updates and
the code is down here and
it will even open in a code pen for
you if you want.
So you can play around with
those clip paths here.
I don't remember the support you can look
at can I use for this but SVG support for
clip paths is really really good.
So this is last I checked it was like
support in CSS is like I don't know.
[LAUGH] And support in SVG is like.
Earlier than they supported SVG.
Strangely, it's like Chrome 1,
Firefox 1.5.
So it's like way way back there.
So SVG clipping is really well done.
You can animate it.
So here is a GitHub Octocat and he falls.
And he blinks at you.
And then it's like that's all folks.
And then you can replay.
So basically you can use it to create
like make the end of a scene as well.
And remember this pen with
the little arms and stuff.
Those arms are done with the clip path.
Because really they go
into these circles here.
And you're showing pieces of the rectangle
and then you're not showing.
They go in past here.
So basically this is above that shape.
So it would be hard to make it so
that I'm only showing bits of it.
I can't put it behind,
I can't put this behind this.
So there's a little circle here,
it's clipping this longer
piece of rectangle.
I already showed you that.
So it's this little bit here for
both sides of the arm and
it kind of goes out and comes back in.
And you can even use GIFs to mask other
shapes and this is like a SVG pattern and
I'm loading a GIF in and
I'm creating a mask out of that GIF.
So we're using the gradients and we're
using the shadows inside of that GIF.
So we don't even see different colors
of it, we're just seeing the black and
white of it to kind of
expose other things.
And the code for it is pretty simple.
>> Sarah Drasner: Create
a pattern using a gradient, and
I've got this pattern with the rekt and
circle here.
And then I just apply one square where
I'm filling it with the pattern and
masking it with that GIF yeah.
I learned this technique from Yoksel.
She's really really great.
You should check her out on code pen.
Yoksel She does a lot of
really amazing amazing pens.
So this is kind of the tldr of that.
So the image is 100% height 100%.
And then I xlink:href the asset there.
So this is that reference pen by Yoksel.
I just mentioned Yoksel.
She shows in this pen,
this is a movie of the pen, but
she shows in this pen every way that
you can work with SVG and CSS and
clip path and masking and she also has a
little support chart for each one of them.
That's really cool.
And she shows you how to work
with each one of them in code so
it's a really great resource.